tm: WALKING, CAR, STILL, TRAIN and BUS

a maximum frequency of 20 Hz

< timestamp, sensori, sensorOutputi >

Result files contained raw data from twenty-three sensors.

6% of data is annotated as walking, 25% as driving a car, 24% as standing still,
20% as being on a train, and 5% as being on a bus

the time series for each sensor are then split in time windows of a fixed size. For each window, standard and
robust numerical features are extracted (such as min, max, mean and standard
deviation) the ML model is trained on the extracted features for each sensor.

The size of the time window depends on the types of actions
to be recognized, and in this work we set it to 5 seconds, which is a common
value for similar task also for related works in literature

for each window we end up with a total of Λ · 4 features, where Λ is the total number of sensors
which reported a value in the given time window. Missing values are then filled
with average values on the training set for each sensor.

The excluded sensors are: light, pression, magnetic field, gravity and
proximity.

From the remaining sensors, we have created three evaluation datasets,
namely D1, D2 and D3. D1 is composed by the accelerometer, gyroscope and sound; D2
contains all the others but the speed, which is added in D3.
For each Di, we build four models with four different classification algorithms: Decision Trees (DT), Random Forest (RF), Support Vector Machines
(SVM), and Neural Network (NN). Since NN and SVM require precise parameters characterization ([10], [5]), we perform a 10-fold cross validation to find
the best parameters, and select those for the rest of our analysis.

features obtained from the
accelerometer are by far the most important in recognizing the classes, followed
by the gyroscope. Features from the sound have instead less importance. 
the speed is considered important by the model only for motorized classes.

Consequently, a model the aim of which is to figure out if a user is WALKING
can be easily based on accelerometer and gyroscope. On the other hand, when one of the classes
to be classified is STILL, also the sound can be helpful.